# Fragile Development

Florian Haas, Snow Unix Event 2017

florian@hastexo.com | @xahteiwi


`_____`'s roles, artifacts, events, and rules are _immutable_ and
although implementing only parts of `_____` is possible, _the result
is not_ `_____`.

Note: Tell me what this statement evokes for you. If you're wired like
me, it sounds like something out of a radical political manifesto, or
maybe an extremely strict religious sect or cult.


`Scrum`'s roles, artifacts, events, and rules are _immutable_ and
although implementing only parts of `Scrum` is possible, _the result
is not_ `Scrum`.

Note: This is taken directly [from the Scrum
guide](http://www.scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html#endnote), CC-BY-SA
4.0, written by Ken Schwaber and Jeff Sutherland (and contributors)


_What is `Scrum`, even?_


“a framework for _developing and sustaining complex
products_”


“a framework within which people can _address complex
adaptive problems,_ while productively and creatively _delivering
products_ of the highest possible value”

Note: `Scrum` is "a framework for developing and sustaining complex
products" or "a framework within which people can address complex
adaptive problems, while productively and creatively delivering
products of the highest possible value" by [its own
definitions](http://www.scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html), and "an
iterative and incremental agile software development framework for
managing product development" by
[Wikipedia's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_(software_development)).

Ken Schwaber and Jeff Sutherland, frequently referred to as "Ken and
Jeff", first presented `Scrum` in 1995. It had previously been "tried
and refined" at places like Individual Inc. (now a part of Reuters),
Fidelity Investments, and IDX systems (now a part of GE Healthcare).


_What is `Scrum` like?_

Note: Interestingly, Scrum's own creators put something into the Scrum
Guide that should set off a few alarm bells.


What is `Scrum` like?

_Lightweight_

_Simple to understand_

_Difficult to master_

Note: Translation: we're not actually defining a lot, we're describing
it in simple terms, and it's quite possible you're still too dumb to
do it right.
